README.md, before:

# Integers

`integers` is a package for C++ that implements integer types with explicit,
well-defined behavior (of your choice!) on overflow, underflow, division by 0,
casting, and shifting too far.

`integers` is developed and maintained by members of the Fuchsia Security Team,
but it is not an official Google product.

Defined behaviors are trapping (`trapping<T>` and associated stand-alone helper
functions), wrapping (`wrapping<T>` and helpers), or clamping/saturating
(`clamping<T>` and helpers). You choose your preferred policy/behavior by using
the stand-alone template helper functions and/or the template classes.

There is also a `ranged<T>` template class for situations where you need a type
that constrains integers to a specific range of values.

The main goals of this library are correctness and usability: ideally, you can
simply drop in the right type for your situation, and the rest of your code
works as expected — the template classes should be fully compatible with the
built-in primitive types.

Another goal is that this library should be easy to import and use, without any
transitive dependencies or other complications. `integers` is a headers-only
library.

`integers` is tested to work with C++17 and C++20.

## Usage

An example use case for `integers` is file format parsers and deserializers and
so on, which are constantly calculating and re-calculating offsets and indices
into files. It is all too easy to have mistakes in that kind of code, with the
classic C integer semantics.

For full documentation, see the Markdown comments in the header files. Here’s an
introduction.

## Installation

## Acknowledgements

Special thanks to Jan Wilken Dörrie and Dana Jansens for the help in
implementation and general C++ advice.

## TODO

TODO: Consider providing some operations that don’t exist (such as rotate) for
standard C and C++ integers.

`integers` will have a complete test suite. That’s a TODO in progress, along
with the rest of the implementation work. Currently only `trapping<T>` and its
helper functions implemented and tested.

For comments, constructive criticism, patches, help, et c., please feel free to
file a GitHub issue! See [docs/contributing.md] and [docs/code-of-conduct.md].

Commit message:

Add more to the README.md. Add `install` target.
For easier installation.

README.md, after:

# Integers

`integers` is a package for C++ that implements integer types with explicit,
well-defined behavior (of your choice!) on overflow, underflow, division by 0,
casting, and shifting too far.

`integers` is developed and maintained by members of the Fuchsia Security Team,
but it is not an official Google product.

Defined behaviors are trapping (`trapping<T>` and associated stand-alone helper
functions), wrapping (`wrapping<T>` and helpers), or clamping/saturating
(`clamping<T>` and helpers). You choose your preferred policy/behavior by using
the stand-alone template helper functions and/or the template classes.

There is also a `ranged<T>` template class for situations where you need a type
that constrains integers to a specific range of values.

The main goals of this library are correctness and usability: ideally, you can
simply drop in the right type for your situation, and the rest of your code
works as expected — the template classes should be fully compatible with the
built-in primitive types.

Another goal is that this library should be easy to import and use, without any
transitive dependencies or other complications. `integers` is a headers-only
library.

`integers` is tested to work with C++17 and C++20.

## Usage

An example use case for `integers` is file format parsers and deserializers and
so on, which are constantly calculating and re-calculating offsets and indices
into files. It is all too easy to have mistakes in that kind of code, with the
classic C integer semantics.

You can see a simple example of 4 ways to use the trapping helper functions and
the `trapping` template class in demo.cc. It shows a simple example of code that
is vulnerable to integer overflow, and ways to fix it.

For full documentation, see the Markdown comments in the header files.

## Installation

To install, simply copy the header files into a place that your compiler can see
them. You can do this manually, or you can edit the Makefile to set your desired
`INSTALL_DIR`, and then run `make install`.

## Acknowledgements

Special thanks to Jan Wilken Dörrie and Dana Jansens for the help in
implementation and general C++ advice.

## TODO

TODO: Consider providing some operations that don’t exist (such as rotate) for
standard C and C++ integers.

`integers` will have a complete test suite. That’s a TODO in progress, along
with the rest of the implementation work. Currently only `trapping<T>` and its
helper functions implemented and tested.

For comments, constructive criticism, patches, help, et c., please feel free to
file a GitHub issue! See [docs/contributing.md] and [docs/code-of-conduct.md].
